.TH VIZIER-CONFIG 5 "UNRELEASED" "Vizier" "File Formats"
.SH NAME
vizier-config \- Vizier configuration files, precedence, and environment
.SH DESCRIPTION
Vizier reads layered configuration from repository and user scopes, then applies
command-line overrides for the active run.
.SH FILE LOCATIONS
.TP
\fI.vizier/config.toml\fR
Repository-local configuration.
.TP
\fI.vizier/config.json\fR
Repository-local JSON alternative.
.TP
\fI$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/vizier/config.toml\fR
User-level default configuration (platform equivalent also supported).
.SH PRECEDENCE
Effective settings resolve in this order:
.IP "1." 4
CLI flags for the current invocation.
.IP "2." 4
Repository config (\fI.vizier/config.toml\fR or \fI.vizier/config.json\fR).
.IP "3." 4
User/global config (\fI$XDG_CONFIG_HOME\fR or platform equivalent).
.IP "4." 4
\fIVIZIER_CONFIG_FILE\fR, only when no config files are found.
.SH COMMON TABLES
.TP
\fB[agents.default]\fR and \fB[agents.commands.<alias>]\fR
Select the agent shim (for example \fBcodex\fR or \fBgemini\fR) and per-command
runtime settings.
.TP
\fB[workflow]\fR and \fB[workflow.templates]\fR
Control workflow defaults such as \fBno_commit_default\fR and per-command
template selectors.
.TP
\fB[review.checks]\fR
Repository check commands used by \fBvizier review\fR.
.TP
\fB[merge.cicd_gate]\fR
Merge CI/CD script, retry policy, and auto-remediation controls.
.SH PROMPT PROFILES
Prompt overrides are scoped by command alias and prompt kind.
Valid kinds include \fBdocumentation\fR, \fBcommit\fR,
\fBimplementation_plan\fR, \fBreview\fR, and \fBmerge_conflict\fR.

Use \fBvizier plan\fR (or \fBvizier plan --json\fR) to inspect resolved settings.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fBVIZIER_CONFIG_FILE\fR
Fallback config path used only when repository and global config files are absent.
.TP
\fBVIZIER_CONFIG_DIR\fR
Override the user-level config directory root.
.TP
\fBVIZIER_AGENT_SHIMS_DIR\fR
Override the directory that contains bundled agent shim labels.
.TP
\fBVIZIER_PAGER\fR
Pager command used for TTY help output.
.SH CANONICAL REFERENCES
For the complete key catalogue and examples, see:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fIdocs/user/config-reference.md\fR
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fIdocs/user/prompt-config-matrix.md\fR
.PP
Compatibility aliases for root-level doc pointers:
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fIdocs/config-reference.md\fR
.IP "\(bu" 2
\fIdocs/prompt-config-matrix.md\fR
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vizier (1),
.BR vizier-workflow (7)
