.TH VIZIER 1 "January 2026" "Vizier" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
vizier \- CLI for LLM project management
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vizier
[\fIGLOBAL OPTIONS\fR]
\fICOMMAND\fR
[\fIARGS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Vizier is a CLI tool for managing agent-assisted workflows in a Git repository.
It maintains repo-local narrative artifacts under
.I .vizier/
and provides commands for drafting plans, applying them, reviewing changes, and merging with gates.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Silence progress/history output.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Increase stderr verbosity (\fB\-v\fR = info, \fB\-vv\fR = debug).
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-ansi
Disable ANSI control sequences (non-TTY is always plain).
.TP
.BR \-\-pager ", " \-\-no\-pager
Control paging for help output; honors
.BR VIZIER_PAGER .
.TP
.BR \-j ", " \-\-json
Emit JSON output (command-dependent).
.TP
.BR \-\-agent " " \fISELECTOR\fR
Select a bundled agent shim (for example
.BR codex " or " gemini )
or a custom shim label configured in the repository.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.BR ask
Run an assistant-backed task against the repository.
.TP
.BR save
Persist audited changes and update narrative artifacts.
.TP
.BR draft ", " approve ", " review ", " merge
Plan workflow: draft a plan, apply it on a draft branch, review checks/critique, then merge.
.TP
.BR list
List pending plan branches.
.TP
.BR plan
Print the resolved configuration.
.TP
.BR jobs
Inspect background job records.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B VIZIER_AGENT_SHIMS_DIR
Overrides the search path for bundled agent shims (a directory containing
.BR codex/ ,
.BR gemini/ ,
etc).
.TP
.B VIZIER_PAGER
Pager command used for help output when paging is enabled.
.TP
.B VIZIER_CONFIG_DIR
Overrides where the global configuration is stored.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I .vizier/config.toml
Repository configuration overlay (when present).
.TP
.I .vizier/narrative/snapshot.md
Canonical snapshot maintained by Vizier workflows.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git (1)
